HELP
--------

CHECKOUT
----------------	
Select the “Checkout” tab to access the form to checkout a library item.
	CHECKING OUT AN ITEM
	1.	Enter the Patron’s number into the “Patron ID” field or click 'LOOKUP' to pop up a dialog to lookup a patron by name.
	2.	Enter part of the title for the media item to be checked out in the “Select Item” field
	3.	Select the item from the list displayed below the “Select Item” field
	4.	The selected item’s data is displayed to the “Item” form on the right side of the application display
	5.	Click the “Checkout” button in the “Item” form to check out the item.
	
	CHECKING IN AN ITEM
	1.	Enter part of the title for the media item to be checked out in the “Select Item” field
	2.	Select the item from the list displayed below the “Select Item” field
	3.	The selected item’s data is displayed to the “Item” form on the right side of the application display
	4.	Click the “Check In” button in the “Item” form to check in the item.

EDIT
--------
Select the “Edit” tab to access the forms to modify library data.
	EDITING OR ADDING AN ITEM
	1.	Select “Items” from the top option menu to indicate that you would like to edit an item.
	2.	Enter part of the title for the media item to be edited in the Search field.
	3.	Select the item from the list displayed below the “Add New” button.
	4.	The selected item’s data is displayed in the “Item” form on the right side of the application display
	5.	Modify the data in the “Item” form and click the “Save Item” button to save the modified data for that item.
	6.	Click the 'Add New' button, fill in the data, and click the "Save Item" button to add a new item.
	
	DELETING AN ITEM
	1.	Select "Items" from the top option menu to indicate that you are deleting an item.
	2.	Enter part of the title of the item to be deleted in the Search field.
	3.	Select the item from the list displayed below the "Add New" button.
	4.	Click the "Delete Item" button found in the right pane of the window

	EDITING OR ADDING A PATRON
	1.	Select “Patrons” from the top option menu to indicate that you would like to edit a patron.
	2.	Enter part of the Patron’s name in the Search field.
	3.	Select the patron from the list displayed below the "Add New" button.
	4.	The selected patron’s data is displayed in the “Patron” form on the right side of the application display.
	5.	Modify the data in the “Patron” form and click the “Save Patron” button to save the modified data for the patron.
	6.	Click the 'Add New' button, fill in the data, and click the "Save Patron" button to add a new patron.
	
	DELETING AN PATRON
	1.	Select "Patron" from the top option menu to indicate that you are deleting an patron.
	2.	Enter part of the name of the patron to be deleted in the Search field.
	3.	Select the Patron from the list displayed below the "Add New" button.
	4.	Click the "Delete Patron" button in the right pane of the window

	EDITING OR ADDING A TYPE
	1.	Select “Types” from the top option menu to indicate that you would like to edit a media type.
	2.	Enter part of the media type's code in the Search field.
	3.	Select the type from the list displayed below the "Add New" button.
	4.	The selected type’s data is displayed in the “Type” form on the right side of the application display.
	5.	Modify the data in the “Type” form and click the “Save Type” button to save the modified data for the media type.
	6.	Click the 'Add New' button, fill in the data, and click the "Save Type" button to add a new media type.
	
	

REPORTS
--------------
Select the “Reports” tab to access the report function.
	RUNNING REPORTS
	Select the  “Get Reports” tab to view the menu for running reports.
	Click on the report to be run.
	The report results will appear in right side of the application display.
	
	PRINTING REPORTS
	To print a report first run the report (see “RUNNING REPORTS”).
	Click on the “Print All” button on the display to send the report results to the printer.
	Available “Reports” are:
		Items by Title:
			Returns all the library items ordered by title
		Items by Type:
			Returns all the library items ordered by media type 
			(ie., book, newspaper, magazine)	
		Checked Out Items by Due Date:
			Returns all checked out library items ordered by due date 
			(each date on a separate page)	
		Checked Out Items by Type:
			Return all checked out library items ordered by media type
		Checked Out Items by Patron:
			Returns all checked out library items ordered by patron 
			(each patron on a separate page)

HELP
--------
Select the “Help” tab to see this “Help” information.
